---
title: Welcome!
description: Welcome to the official documentation of Xenon!
published: true
date: 2021-01-12T12:14:14.970Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2020-06-21T10:16:34.688Z
---

# Intro
The bot Xenon is based around the idea of creating & loading backups of your discord. Create backups of your channels, roles, permissions and messages (only with the Xenon Premium) and share them with other people. Just invite the bot and start now.

> If you like Xenon, an [upvote](https://top.gg/bot/416358583220043796/vote) would help us a lot! 
{.is-success}

> If you want to support the development of Xenon, consider buying [Xenon Premium](/premium).
{.is-success}

> If you need further help, join the [support server](https://xenon.bot/discord).
{.is-info}

<br />

# Slash commands

Xenon is now avaliable using `/` on up to date discord clients (web, desktop and mobile). You will need to reinvite the bot manually to enable them. Slash commands will be automatically enabled on all servers at the end of January 2021. This will replace the original `x!` version of Xenon within a few months. Xenon Premium does not have this functionality yet.

<br /> 

## Demo
<br />

<video controls width="60%">
<source src="https://wiki.xenon.bot/slash-commands-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

<br />

# Backups

Backups are used to save and duplicate your server. Backups are limited to the user that created it, but not limited to a server. That means you can use backups to move, or duplicate a server.

Every Backup has an unique id. It's generated by the bot while creating a backup. The id is used to load or get information about a backup. e.g. `p9b3neiq8i4olu56`

> [Get help with backups](/backups)
{.is-info}

<br />

# Templates

Xenon gives you access to hundreds of free templates. In contrast to backups, templates are public and can be used by everyone.

Like backups, templates have a unique name. In contrast to backups that name isn't generated by the bot, but chosen by the creator of the template.

Everyone can create templates, if you have a server setup you want to share, feel free to create your own template.

> [Get help with templates](/templates)
{.is-info}